# mb1-analysis/metadata

This folder contains a series of csvs that are references by the analysis scripts to deal with a variety of issues that need to be dealt with on a case-by-case basis. Wherever possible, lab-by-lab and subject-by-subject changes or notations are included here, so that they can be checked and updated in an error-minimizing way.

TODO: If you know what each of these files is, please describe it! Use the following template:

### unconfirmed_unmatched_participants.csv

DESCRIPTION: A programmatically generated file that summarizes participants who are absent from either the trials or the participant-level data, along with some informative columns. This is intended to help guide by-hand identification of the remaining data cleaning issues (circa 8/28/18)
REFERENCED AT: About line 250 of `01_read_and_merge.Rmd`

### true_unmatched_participants.csv

DESCRIPTION: A by-hand marking of participants determined to be not fixable by merge/typo stuff, and what to do about this.  This includes mainly 3 things: Pilot participants (but not all of them), subject numbers that are in sequence, but never corresponded to a kid, and subject numbers that DID correspond to a kid, typically one who went on to complete 0 trials of the experiment. About line 250 of `01_read_and_merge.Rmd`

### ManyBabiesQuestionnaireSpreadsheetAuthoritativeMay22-2018cleaned.csv - ManyBabiesQuestionnaireMay22-2018cleaned.csv.csv

### NAE_labs.csv

DESCRIPTION: 
REFERENCED AT: 

### Variable_Dictionary_mb1.csv

DESCRIPTION: 
REFERENCED AT: 

### labs_convert_looking_time_to_seconds.csv

DESCRIPTION: This .csv lists labs who reported looking time in milliseconds. We determined whether labs reported looking time in milliseconds by examining their trials data – labs for which the majority of trial lengths seems excessively long for reporting in seconds (e.g., most trial length values around or above 1000) were classified as having reported trial length in milliseconds and were thus marked for conversion in this metadata file. Related to issue # 11.
REFERENCED AT: line 741 of `02_variable_validation.Rmd`

### labs_trim_looking_time_to_18s.csv

DESCRIPTION: This .csv file lists all of the labs who had any number of participant trials with looking times over 18s (which should not be possible given that the max stimulus length is 18s). Per meeting on 10/19/18 we have decided to trim all looking times to 18s. However, this metadata file contains information about why looking times were over 18s for each lab. For some labs, long looking times were between 18s and 19s, so these are likely just minor timing issues in the stimulus presentation program. Other reasons for stimuli longer than 18s are specified in the `reasons` column and described further in issue #216. 
REFERENCED AT: originally referenced at approx. line 762 of `02_variable_validation.rmd` (but we have now decided to clip ALL files at 18s so now there is no reference to this file in the code)

### participants_cog_hearing_exclusions.csv

DESCRIPTION: This .csv file lists participants who were originally coded as excluded for having vision, hearing, or cognitive developmental issues but that we felt were  appropriate to actually include (i.e., an infant who has a minor eye infection or parents with vision issues). Justifications for deciding whether to include these participants can be found in issue #16.

Issues classified as:
1. minor vision/eye issue - issues (such as a minor eye infection or the infant is farsighted) that seem unlikely to influence infants' performance in the current study.
2. family history - cases in which the parent reports a family history of vision issues or autism, but these issues are with individuals other than the infant.
3. physical delay - cases in which the parent reports a physical delay (e.g., not yet crawling) that seems unlikely to influence infants' performance in the current study.
4. parental concerns - concerns reported by parents (e.g., sometimes the infant doesn't respond right away or the infant seems small for their age) that seem unlikely to influence infants' performance in the current study.
5. true exclusion - infant has major vision / hearing / developmental issues that do warrant exclusion from the current study.

REFERENCED AT: line 432 in `02_variable_validation.Rmd`

### participants_columns_used.csv

DESCRIPTION: A .csv file generated by approx. lines 50-60 in `01_read_and_merge.Rmd`. In the first column, this file lists all of the column names that are used in any of the data files that have been read in. The second column lists either the name of the file in which this column name is used or, if it is used in more than 1 file, the value is "many." This is later used for remapping column names (see `participants_columns_remapping` below).
REFERENCED AT: line 61 in `01_read_and_merge.Rmd`

### participants_columns_remapping.csv

DESCRIPTION: A .csv file that maps the names of columns used in data files that have been read in to more consistent column names for the ManyBabies analyses. This file was created by examining the `participants_columns_used` file and manually entering the values that they should be mapped to. The column labeled `column` lists the column values from `participants_columns_used`. The column labeled `status` indicates whether the column should be included, excluded, or substituted (sub) in the data file that results from using this file. If `status` = `sub`, the `substitution` column indicates what to sub for that column name. The `type` column specifies the data type. The `file` column again lists either the name of the file in which this column name is used or, if it is used in more than 1 file, the value is "many."  
REFERENCED AT: line 67 of `01_read_and_merge.Rmd`

### participants_session_error_fussiness.csv

DESCRIPTION:  A .csv file that lists participants that were excluded by a lab for "global fussiness". We either do not have detailed trial-level error information about these babies (i.e. on which particular trials they were fussy) or we do not have any trial data for these participants. See issue #57 and #186 for detailed discussion.
REFERENCED AT: not currently referenced

Columns:
lab: the lab's unique ID (formatted to match the IDs post pre-processing)
subid: the participant's unique ID (formatted to match the IDs post pre-processing)
fussiness_kind: an explanation of the reason the participant is included in the file
trials_recoded_as_error: whether trials needed to be recoded as an error for the participant 

### participants_session_error_keep.csv

DESCRIPTION: A .csv file that lists participants we have identified as being incorrectly classified as a session error. See issue #57 for detailed discussion.
REFERENCED AT: Approx. line 534 in `02_variable_validation`.

Columns:
lab: the lab's unique ID (formatted to match the IDs post pre-processing)
subid: the participant's unique ID (formatted to match the IDs post pre-processing)
session_error_recoded: whether the session error will be recoded (for flexibility)
session_error_change_reason: a short description of the reason the session error is recoded 

### participants_session_error_type.csv

DESCRIPTION: A .csv file that lists participants we have identified as session errors along with a unified/ consistent coding of their session error type (since labs varied greatly in the way they used the column session_error_type).
REFERENCED AT: Approx. line 99 in `exclusions`.

Columns:
lab: the lab's unique ID (formatted to match the IDs post pre-processing)
subid: the participant's unique ID (formatted to match the IDs post pre-processing)
session_error_type_recoded: the session error type (equipment failure, experimenter error or outside interference)

### participants_trial_error_update.csv

DESCRIPTION: A .csv file that lists trials we have identified as being incorrectly classified as a trial error or incorrectly classified as not being a trial error. See issue #107 (and #19 and #57) for detailed discussion.
REFERENCED AT: Approx. line 580 in `02_variable_validation.Rmd`

Columns:
lab: the lab's unique ID (formatted to match the IDs post pre-processing)
subid: the participant's unique ID (formatted to match the IDs post pre-processing)
trial_error_recoded: whether the trial will be recoded (for flexibility)
trial_error_new: the new coding of the trial (error or noerror)
trial_error_change_reason: a short description of the reason the trial error is recoded

### preterm_fix.csv

DESCRIPTION: A .csv file that lists either: (a) the number of weeks each lab used as full term or (b) indicates that all infants in a given lab's data are full term. Used to edit the `days_preterm` column so that it reflects days less than 37 weeks for all labs.
REFERENCED AT: Approx. line 481 in `02_variable_validation.Rmd`

### labs_dB_levels.csv

DESCRIPTION: A .csv file that lists the lab-reported dB levels with and without reference audio when available. Contains NAs for labs who did not report one or both of these values in either the lab qualtrics questionnaire, protocol change forms, or email correspondence. Some labs only reported one number. When they specified that this was "with reference audio" it is included in the with_reference column of the csv with an NA in the without_reference column. If they just reported a single number without specifying what it was, it is not included in this csv. If labs reported a range with reference audio (i.e., 65-70) the recorded value is the average of these two numbers.
REFERENCED AT: Approx. line 331 of `mb1-paper.Rmd` and read in at approx. line 295 of this same .Rmd file.

